## Physical Appearance

### Anatomy

Kobolds are a small species of people who are lizard- and bird-like. They are
typically about 3 feet tall, with a variance of ±6 inches being common (though
there is a rare genetic abnormality that causes some to grow to heights more in
the 5 to 6 foot range).

They have faces with pronounced snouts like many lizards. Their nostrils and
eyes are large for their head size compared to other sentients. Eye color
commonly can range from dark brown to golden, blue, green and yellow. They have
no visible ears (also like lizards), though they can hear fine.

Their teeth are mostly sharp, having evolved from carnivorous species, but they
have developed flat rear teeth for chewing plant matter. They have a wide,
muscly tongue with a fork near the end that is typically black.

They have two arms, two legs and a long, thick tail. They are typically slender
and, while warm-blooded, have very low body fat percentage with their tail
accounting for 30-45% of their body mass.

They have hands with four fingers and an opposable thumb. They are digitigrades,
walking on the digits of their legs with long carpals and tarsals keeping their
ankles far from the ground like canines. Also like canines, they typically only
have four toes on their legs and pads where they touch the ground. Both fingers
and toes are clawed, though most individuals keep their finger claws trimmed
neatly for aesthetic and utilitarian reasons.

Kobolds' reproductive organs are between their legs, below their bellies and in
front of the anus (which is near underside of the base of their tails). Most of
the time, all individuals' reproductive organs will look like a long slit in the
skin. During arousal, this slit expands and opens revealing, typically, either
labia (note this is not a cloaca, but is much closer to common analogous
mammalian organs) or a penis (though of course genetic variation accounts for
less common arrangements). See below for more about kobold sex and reproduction.

Their skin is covered in scales. Most commonly, these are smooth and shiny like
a gila monster, though rougher on some individuals, especially as they age.
There is a high variability in appearance beyond this. As with all other
sentients, physical traits are selected for due to societal concerns and vary
across the total population of the species. Only the most common will be
discussed here.

Most kobolds have smooth scales over their entire bodies. Coloration can vary
widely and is one of the major identifying marks (like skin and hair color among
mammalian Big People). It is also clearly inherited from parents. For example,
some individuals may be entirely a dusty brown perhaps with a lighter brown
"under" side (chin, front of the neck, chest, belly, groin and underside of the
tail) while others might have a busy pattern of one dark and one bright color
and others might be mostly a bright blue or green with red stripes along their
back. These are only a few examples to illustrate the breadth of variety.

Less common, but still not shocking to find in a kobold population of any size
at all are individuals with long feathers (generally in the 4-7 inch range).
These will often—but not always—be of similar colors to their scales and most
often form fans or crests at the back and/or top of the head or at the tip of
the tail. Some fewer feathered individuals may have feathers about the
shoulders, waist, elbow or knee (but only very rarely at the wrist or ankle,
which, remember, is digitigrade and so not near the ground during locomotion).

More rare are individuals with horny protrusions on the head and face or along
the spine and into the tale. These are generally less than a half inch long and
while they may look fearsome, they are not very sharp but might be useful for a
good scratch.

Roughly every 15 months, kobolds will molt. The process takes between 10 and 30
days. Like lizards, molting happens in stages, which the outer layer of skin
coming off in patches. Kobolds get very itchy during this period and will
scratch at the dry, old skin. If an individual's claws are not properly
maintained (common among children who are unskilled at trimming their hand claws
and whose claws tend to be sharper), it is possible they will hurt themselves
scratching due to the intense itching. It is common for an individual to use
tools and creams to ease the process and to engage the help of partners in
scratching where it is hard to reach.


## Reproduction

Kobold young are born from eggs. Eggs are internally fertilized during sex
between two kobolds (in fact, there are some reports that fertilization may not
always be required, but this is unconfirmed). Eggs are laid either one or two at
a time only and a kobold capable of laying eggs may do so as few as zero or as
many as twelve times in their life with one to three times being very common
numbers of offspring.

The eggs are spherical, about 6 inches in diameter and the shell is a thick,
leathery material in a grey or milky white shade. It is slightly translucent and
in the right lighting conditions, the growing kobold inside can be seen in vague
silhouette.

Gestation in the egg takes 7-8 months and temperature regulation of the egg's
environment is key at this time. Young kobolds use already-sharp hand and foot
claws to cut their way out of their egg when ready and then spend the next few
months learning to move and walk and are usually speaking around a year of age.
Eggs and young are cared for communally generally with a group of trained,
dedicated kobolds leading the task, rather than the birth parents. See below for
more of Kobold family formation.
